Update 80f0bf - audio or video avoids automatically playing audio (#1655)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: _rules/audio-or-video-avoids-automatically-playing-audio-x0paj4.md

    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G170: # Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page that turns off sounds that play automatically
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G171: # Playing sounds only on user request
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - Audio output
  - Visual output
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
  previous_authors:
    - Anne Thyme Nørregaard
    - Bryn Anderson
htmlHintIgnore:
  # https://www.npmjs.com/package/htmlhint
  # (used with `npm test` to ensure validity of code snippets)
  - 'title-require'
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any `audio` or `video` element for which all the following are true:

- **autoplay**: the element has an `autoplay` [attribute value][] of `true`; and
- **not muted**: the element has a `muted` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **not paused**: the element has a `paused` [attribute value][] of `false`; and

> - **audio duration**: the element has a [media resource][] for which the audio output lasts longer than 3 seconds.

Reviewer: We can use `dfn` elements for the condition list (and possibly link to the correct condition from corresponding examples).

Author: Added `dfn` elements and updated inapplicable examples accordingly

```html
<body>
	<div id="video-container">
		<!-- Video -->
		<video id="video" autoplay>
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
		</video>
		<!-- Video Controls -->
		<div id="video-controls">
			<button type="button" id="play-pause" class="play">Play</button>
			<button type="button" id="mute">Mute</button>
		</div>
	</div>
	<script src="/test-assets/80f0bf/no-autoplay.js"></script>
</body>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

This `audio` element autoplays, lasts for more than 3 seconds, and does not have an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio.

```html
<audio src="/test-assets/moon-audio/moon-speech.mp3" autoplay></audio>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This `video` element's audio autoplays for longer than 3 seconds, and does not have an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio.

```html
<video autoplay>
	<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
	<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
</video>
```

> ### Inapplicable

Reviewer: Should we add an example with a long video but short audio? I understand this should pass 1.4.2, and it should be inapplicable for the rule due to the **audio duration** condition. But this also gets to the definition of "audio output" (Does John Cage's *4'33* have an "audio output"?)

Author: Added inapplicable example 5

- <dfn id="x0paj4:not-muted">not muted</dfn>: the element has a `muted` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- <dfn id="x0paj4:not-paused">not paused</dfn>: the element has a `paused` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- <dfn id="x0paj4:audio-duration">audio duration</dfn>: the element has a [media resource][] for which the audio output lasts longer than 3 seconds.

## Expectation

For each test target, there is at least one [instrument][] in the same [web page][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio.

## Assumptions

This rule assumes that it is not sufficient for the [instrument][] to control the sound to be located on a different [web page][], or a different state of the same [web page][] to pass the rule. [Instruments][instrument] located on other pages can still create accessibility issues for users relying on sound to navigate (e.g. screen reader users) since the autoplaying sound will interfere with their ability to find and activate the [instrument][]. If an [instrument][] external to the [web page][] is provided, this rule will fail but it is still possible to satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

## Accessibility Support

> Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted. For these, the rule is never applicable. But, for UA that autoplay not muted video, the rule is still applicable.

Reviewer 2: Let's not abbreviate.

```suggestion
Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted. For these, the rule is never applicable. But for browsers that autoplay not muted video, the rule is still applicable.
```

```

#### Passed Example 2

This `video` element has its default controls as an [instrument][] to pause, stop mute the audio.

```html
<video autoplay controls>
	<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
	<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
</video>
```

#### Passed Example 3

This `video` element autoplays and has an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio.

```html
<body>
	<div id="video-container">
		<!-- Video -->
		<video id="video" autoplay>
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
		</video>
		<!-- Video Controls -->
		<div id="video-controls">
			<button type="button" id="play-pause" class="play">Play</button>
			<button type="button" id="mute">Mute</button>
		</div>
	</div>
	<script src="/test-assets/80f0bf/no-autoplay.js"></script>
</body>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

This `audio` element autoplays, lasts for more than 3 seconds, and does not have an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio.

```html
<audio src="/test-assets/moon-audio/moon-speech.mp3" autoplay></audio>
```

> #### Failed Example 2

Reviewer 2: This example somewhat contradicts the idea that whether a failed example fails shouldn't depend on accessibility support. I'm a little worried this example could block implementations that run in Chromium. I know that could happen in axe Pro (although we have no tools testing this today). I'm pretty sure Trusted Tester would be impacted though, as it is tested in Edge.

So from that angle I'm not sure I would want this example in. On the other hand, not having a failed video example in it feels like a problem too. We could possibly wait with this rule until we have this "optional examples" idea worked out. A different option could be to modify the rule so that it isn't just about autocomplay, but more generally about media elements that start playing without user interaction within the first 3 second of the page loading? That feels like a reasonable improvement on this rule anyway, and we could then add videos that get turned on through a script during onload.

- <dfn id="x0paj4:not-muted">not muted</dfn>: the element has a `muted` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- <dfn id="x0paj4:not-paused">not paused</dfn>: the element has a `paused` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- <dfn id="x0paj4:audio-duration">audio duration</dfn>: the element has a [media resource][] for which the audio output lasts longer than 3 seconds.

## Expectation

For each test target, there is at least one [instrument][] in the same [web page][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio.

## Assumptions

This rule assumes that it is not sufficient for the [instrument][] to control the sound to be located on a different [web page][], or a different state of the same [web page][] to pass the rule. [Instruments][instrument] located on other pages can still create accessibility issues for users relying on sound to navigate (e.g. screen reader users) since the autoplaying sound will interfere with their ability to find and activate the [instrument][]. If an [instrument][] external to the [web page][] is provided, this rule will fail but it is still possible to satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

> This rule assumes that the [instrument][] to control the sound is visible and accessible in order to be effective and usable by all kinds of users. If the [instrument][] is hidden to some users, it is possible to pass this rule but still not satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

Reviewer: Should that be merged with the Background note on the same topic?
I'm not sure this needs to be an Assumption (since we do have a "further testing needed" mapping already).

Author: Done

## Accessibility Support

> Some major browsers no longer automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted.
```
(more timeless wording).
Also, should we expand a bit like "for these UA, the rule is pointless/never applicable; but for UA that do autoplay unmuted video, the rule still makes sense" (notably as a note for future TF to remember and check whether some browser still autoplay videos in the future when they review the rule yearly).

## Background

The [instruments][instrument] used to pass this rule (if any), must meet all level A Success Criteria in order to fully satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142]. These extra requirements are left out of this rule, and should be tested separately.

### Bibliography

- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.2: Audio Control](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/audio-control.html)

> - [Accessible Multimedia](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/Multimedia)

Reviewer: Do we want to link to MDN from a W3C site?
Is there some similar W3C document we could link to instead?

Author: Good suggestion!

## Expectation

For each test target, there is at least one [instrument][] in the same [web page][] to pause or stop the audio, or turn the audio volume off independently from the overall system volume control.

## Assumptions

This rule assumes that the [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) to control the sound must be located in the same [web page][]. Mechanisms located on other pages can still create accessibility issues for users relying on sound to navigate (e.g. screen readers users) since the autoplaying sound will interfere with their ability to find and activate the mechanism. If a [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) external to the [web page][] is provided, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

This rule assumes that the [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) to control the sound must be visible and accessible in order to be effective and usable by all kinds of users. If the mechanism is hidden to some users, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

> No [user style sheets](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-user) are used and no changes to the [user agent default style sheet](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-ua) are in place, otherwise the test cases might have different outcomes of the ones presented here. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No [user style sheets](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-user) are used and no changes to the [user agent default style sheet](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-ua) are in place, otherwise the test cases might have different outcomes from the ones presented here. 
```

## Background

The [instruments][instrument] used to pass this rule (if any), must meet all level A Success Criteria in order to fully satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142]. These extra requirements are left out of this rule, and should be tested separately.

- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.2: Audio Control](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/audio-control.html)
- [Accessible Multimedia](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/Multimedia)
- [Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.2 for absence of a way to pause or stop an HTML5 media element that autoplays](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F93)
- [G170: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page that turns off sounds that play automatically](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G170)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

This `audio` element has an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or turn the audio volume off.

```html
<audio src="/test-assets/moon-audio/moon-speech.mp3" autoplay controls></audio>
```

#### Passed Example 2

> This `video` element has (in its default controls) an [instrument][] to pause it, an [instrument][] to stop it, and an [instrument][] to turn its audio volume off.

Reviewer: The "(in its default controls)" bit should probably be present either on all (relevant) cases or none.
Here, it seems that only that example has default control and needs the precision.
(OK, seems like only Passed Example 1 and this have default control, so probaby add the same precision on PE1)

    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - Audio output
  - Visual output
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
  previous_authors:
    - Anne Thyme Nørregaard
    - Bryn Anderson
htmlHintIgnore:
  # https://www.npmjs.com/package/htmlhint
  # (used with `npm test` to ensure validity of code snippets)
  - 'title-require'
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any `audio` or `video` element for which all the following are true:

- **autoplay**: the element has an `autoplay` [attribute value][] of `true`; and
- **not muted**: the element has a `muted` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **not paused**: the element has a `paused` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **audio duration**: the element has a [media resource][] for which the audio output lasts more than 3 seconds.

## Expectation

For each test target, there is at least one [instrument][] in the same [web page][] to pause or stop the audio, or turn the audio volume off independently from the overall system volume control.

## Assumptions

> This rule assumes that the [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) to control the sound must be located in the same [web page][]. Mechanisms located on other pages can still create accessibility issues for users relying on sound to navigate (e.g. screen readers users) since the autoplaying sound will interfere with their ability to find and activate the mechanism. If a [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) external to the [web page][] is provided, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

Reviewer 2: Should this use the word "instrument" instead of "mechanism"?

Author: Indeed it should. "Instrument" is already used in the expectation and the examples' descriptions.

This rule assumes that the [mechanism](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-mechanism) to control the sound must be visible and accessible in order to be effective and usable by all kinds of users. If the mechanism is hidden to some users, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

No [user style sheets](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-user) are used and no changes to the [user agent default style sheet](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-ua) are in place, otherwise the test cases might have different outcomes from the ones presented here.

## Accessibility Support

> The native `video` and `audio` controls in several browser and assistive technology combinations are not keyboard accessible and the `video` or `audio` element itself may not be announced. Authors are recommended to use custom controls for keyboard navigation and cross browser accessibility support in general.

Reviewer 2: From https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1787/files

```suggestion
The native `video` and `audio` controls in several browser and assistive technology combinations are not keyboard accessible and the `video` or `audio` element itself may not be announced. Authors are recommended to use custom controls for keyboard navigation and cross browser accessibility support in general. Some major browsers no longer automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted.
```

## Background

The [instruments][instrument] used to pass this rule (if any), must meet all level A Success Criteria in order to fully satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142]. These extra requirements are left out of this rule, and should be tested separately.

> - [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.2: Audio Control](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/audio-control.html)

Reviewer 2: Can you use the new headings?

Author: Thanks for the reminder!

    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - Audio output
  - Visual output
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
  previous_authors:
    - Anne Thyme Nørregaard
    - Bryn Anderson
htmlHintIgnore:
  # https://www.npmjs.com/package/htmlhint
  # (used with `npm test` to ensure validity of code snippets)
  - 'title-require'
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any `audio` or `video` element for which all the following are true:

- **autoplay**: the element has an `autoplay` [attribute value][] of `true`; and
- **not muted**: the element has a `muted` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **not paused**: the element has a `paused` [attribute value][] of `false`; and
- **audio duration**: the element has a [media resource][] for which the audio output lasts more than 3 seconds.

## Expectation

For each test target, there is at least one [instrument][] in the same [web page][] to pause or stop the audio, or turn the audio volume off independently from the overall system volume control.

## Assumptions

> This rule assumes that the [instrument][] to control the sound must be located in the same [web page][]. [Instruments][instrument] located on other pages can still create accessibility issues for users relying on sound to navigate (e.g. screen readers users) since the autoplaying sound will interfere with their ability to find and activate the [instrument][]. If a [instrument][] external to the [web page][] is provided, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

Author: Rephrased

> This rule assumes that the [instrument][] to control the sound must be visible and accessible in order to be effective and usable by all kinds of users. If the [instrument][] is hidden to some users, it is possible to fail this rule but still satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].

Reviewer 2: There's nothing about the instrument being visible or accessible. I think the assumption is slightly different:

```suggestion
This rule assumes that the [instrument][] to control the sound is visible and accessible in order to be effective and usable by all kinds of users. If the [instrument][] is hidden to some users, it is possible to pass this rule but still not satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142].
```

> No [user style sheets](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-user) are used and no changes to the [user agent default style sheet](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#cascade-origin-ua) are in place, otherwise the test cases might have different outcomes from the ones presented here.
> 

Reviewer 2: This is generally true. I don't think there is any reason to put this assumption into the rule.

```suggestion
```

> ## Accessibility Support

Reviewer 2: In Chrome you can no longer use autoplay on video elements, unless they are muted. I think we should have something in acc support about this.

Author: We already had 😃

> The native `video` and `audio` controls in several browser and assistive technology combinations are not keyboard accessible and the `video` or `audio` element itself may not be announced. Authors are recommended to use custom controls for keyboard navigation and cross browser accessibility support in general. Some major browsers no longer automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted.

Reviewer 2: Is this still true? Which browsers do not have keyboard accessible controls?

Author: I guess you're correct. Did some tests and couldn't find one. I'll remove the note.

## Background

The [instruments][instrument] used to pass this rule (if any), must meet all level A Success Criteria in order to fully satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control][sc142]. These extra requirements are left out of this rule, and should be tested separately.

### Bibliography

- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.2: Audio Control](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/audio-control.html)
- [Accessible Multimedia](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/Multimedia)
- [Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.2 for absence of a way to pause or stop an HTML5 media element that autoplays](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F93)
- [G170: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page that turns off sounds that play automatically](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G170)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

> This `audio` element has (in its default controls) an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or turn the audio volume off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `audio` element has its default controls as an [instrument][] to pause, stop, and mute the audio.
```

I don't think we should do the brackets thing. That this comes through default controls is important information. Can you apply these changes to the other examples too?

```html
<head>
	<style>
		button {
			color: #000;
		}
		button:hover {
			cursor: pointer;
			cursor: pointer;
			background-color: grey;
			color: white;
		}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div id="video-container">
		<!-- Video -->
		<video id="video" autoplay>
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
		</video>
		<!-- Video Controls -->
		<div id="video-controls">
			<button type="button" id="play-pause" class="play">Play</button>
			<button type="button" id="mute">Mute</button>
		</div>
	</div>
	<script src="/test-assets/80f0bf/no-autoplay.js"></script>
</body>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

This `audio` element autoplays, lasts for more than 3 seconds, and does not have an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio.

```html
<audio src="/test-assets/moon-audio/moon-speech.mp3" autoplay></audio>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This `video` element's audio autoplays for longer than 3 seconds, and does not have an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or mute the audio

```html

> <video autoplay>

Reviewer 2: Should we add a note to these that this will not autoplay in several major browsers, or would it be sufficient to mention that in accessibility support?

Author: I've made the accessibility support note more explicit. Let me know if you feel that the note is enough or that it should be added to all examples with autoplay.

Reviewer: Is the "not playing" achieved by ignoring the `autoplay` attribute, or by overwritting it? That is on a browser that doesn't autoplay unmuted videos, does `video.getAttribute("autoplay")` still returns `true` (as set in the HTML), or does it returns `false` (ignoring the attribute)?
In the second case, the Applicability already makes the video inapplicable on such browsers… (still need an AS note, but likely not one on each example).

Author: Chrome autoplays, Firefox and Safari don't. 
All of them return the empty string, since `autoplay` does not really have a value. Even if it is a boolean attribute, `autoplay='false'` [does not work](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video#attr-autoplay). It is present and it autoplays, or it is not present and it does not autoplay.

	<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
	<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
</video>
```

#### Failed Example 3

> This `video` element has an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or turn the audio volume off but the [instrument][] is not visible.

Reviewer 2: The expectation doesn't ask that the control be visible. Unlike the following examples, I can see an argument for why this would fail 1.4.2.

Author: You are correct. And in the definition of instrument we have a note stating that rules using the definition should not check for issues related to 2.1.1 and 4.1.2 so that we don't report one element in two different rules for the same reason.

And I'm curious... what is your argument for failing 1.4.2 in this instance?

```html
<head>
	<style>
		button {
			color: #000;
			display: none;
		}
		button:hover {
			cursor: pointer;
			cursor: pointer;
			background-color: grey;
			color: white;
		}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div id="video-container">
		<!-- Video -->
		<video id="video" autoplay>
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
		</video>
		<!-- Video Controls -->
		<div id="video-controls">
			<button type="button" id="play-pause" class="play">Pause</button>
			<button type="button" id="mute">Mute</button>
		</div>
	</div>
	<script src="/test-assets/80f0bf/no-autoplay.js"></script>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> This `video` element has an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or turn the audio volume off but its `button` elements do not have accessible names.

Reviewer 2: The expectation doesn't ask that the control has an accessible name. That also seems out of scope for this SC. If there was a button there with no accessible name, I'd fail that under 4.1.2, not under 1.4.2.

Author: Removed the example

```html
<head>
	<style>
		button {
			color: #000;
		}
		button:hover {
			cursor: pointer;
			cursor: pointer;
			background-color: grey;
			color: white;
		}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div id="video-container">
		<!-- Video -->
		<video id="video" autoplay>
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
			<source src="/test-assets/rabbit-video/video.webm" type="video/webm" />
		</video>
		<!-- Video Controls -->
		<div id="video-controls">
			<button type="button" id="play-pause" class="play"></button>
			<button type="button" id="mute"></button>
		</div>
	</div>
	<script src="/test-assets/80f0bf/no-autoplay.js"></script>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 5

> This `video` element has an [instrument][] to pause, stop, or turn the audio volume off but the [instrument][] is not included in the accessibility tree.

Reviewer 2: As above. I think that's a 4.1.2 failure.

Author: Removed the example

```html
<head>

> 	<style>

Reviewer 2: Do you need this style elm?

Author: Not really. Removing it.
